DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md, before:

# HesabYar Deployment Checklist

## ✅ Completed Fixes & Improvements

### 1. **Missing CSS File**
- ✅ Created `index.css` with Tailwind directives
- ✅ Added reset and utility layers

### 2. **API Handler Format (Vercel Compatible)**
- ✅ Updated `/api/db.ts` - Changed from `POST()` to `export default handler()`
- ✅ Updated `/api/ocr.ts` - Changed from `POST()` to `export default handler()`
- ✅ Both handlers now use Vercel's standard function signature

### 3. **Tailwind CSS Configuration**
- ✅ Created `tailwind.config.js` with proper content paths
- ✅ Created `postcss.config.js` with Tailwind and Autoprefixer
- ✅ Added Tailwind dependencies to `package.json`:
  - `tailwindcss@^3.4.1`
  - `postcss@^8.4.35`
  - `autoprefixer@^10.4.17`

### 4. **Environment Security**
- ✅ Updated `.gitignore` to exclude `.env.local` and `.env.*.local`
- ✅ Created `vercel.json` with environment variable configuration
- ✅ Configured Vercel Functions with proper runtime settings

### 5. **Purchases Component - Completed Features**
- ✅ **Receipts Tab**: Full OCR integration with Gemini API
  - Image upload with drag-and-drop
  - Automated field extraction
  - Manual correction form
  - Save to database

- ✅ **Vendors Tab**: Full CRUD operations
  - List vendors
  - Delete vendors
  - Create/Edit buttons ready (modals can be added)

- ✅ **Purchase Items Tab**: Full CRUD operations
  - List purchase items with categories and units
  - Delete functionality
  - Create/Edit buttons ready

### 6. **OCR Form Enhancement**
- ✅ Integrated React Hook Form for validation
- ✅ Added vendor dropdown selection
- ✅ Added purchase item linking
- ✅ Form state management
- ✅ Error handling with toast notifications
- ✅ Loading states

### 7. **Documentation**
- ✅ Updated `.github/copilot-instructions.md` with deployment checklist
- ✅ Added comprehensive AI agent instructions

## 🚀 Pre-Deployment Steps

### Step 1: Install Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### Step 2: Set Up Local Environment
Create `.env.local` in project root:
```
GIST_ID=your_gist_id
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key
API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key
```

### Step 3: Test Local Build
```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
# OR for full dev with serverless functions:
vercel dev
```

### Step 4: Verify All Features
- [ ] Dashboard loads without errors
- [ ] Purchases → Receipts: OCR form works
- [ ] Purchases → Vendors: List displays
- [ ] Purchases → Purchase Items: List displays
- [ ] Sales page loads
- [ ] Inventory page calculates stock
- [ ] Reports page loads
- [ ] POS system functions
- [ ] Dark mode toggle works

## 📋 Vercel Deployment

### Step 1: Create Vercel Project
```bash
vercel
# Link existing project or create new
```

### Step 2: Configure Environment Variables
In Vercel dashboard → Settings → Environment Variables, add:
- `GIST_ID`: Your GitHub Gist ID
- `GITHUB_TOKEN`: GitHub PAT with `gist` scope
- `GEMINI_API_KEY`: Your Google Gemini API key
- `API_KEY`: Same as GEMINI_API_KEY

### Step 3: Deploy
```bash
git push origin main
# Vercel will auto-deploy
```

## 📊 File Structure Verification

```
✅ Root Files:
- ✅ package.json (with Tailwind deps)
- ✅ tsconfig.json
- ✅ vite.config.ts
- ✅ tailwind.config.js (NEW)
- ✅ postcss.config.js (NEW)
- ✅ index.css (NEW - with @tailwind directives)
- ✅ index.html
- ✅ vercel.json (UPDATED)
- ✅ .gitignore (UPDATED)

✅ API Functions:
- ✅ api/db.ts (FIXED - Vercel format)
- ✅ api/ocr.ts (FIXED - Vercel format)

✅ Components:
- ✅ components/Dashboard.tsx
- ✅ components/Purchases.tsx (ENHANCED)
- ✅ components/Sales.tsx
- ✅ components/Inventory.tsx
- ✅ components/POS.tsx
- ✅ components/Reports.tsx
- ✅ components/Layout.tsx

✅ Configuration:
- ✅ .github/copilot-instructions.md (UPDATED)
- ✅ public/manifest.json
```

## ⚠️ Known Limitations (By Design)

1. **Edit/Update Forms**: Create buttons exist but modal implementations are placeholder-ready
   - To complete: Add `<Dialog>` component from Radix UI and form handlers

2. **Icon Assets**: Manifest references `/icons/` directory
   - To complete: Generate icons via https://realfavicongenerator.net/ or add simple SVG icons

3. **Purchase Items Linking**: OCR form has select dropdowns for items
   - Ensure purchase items are created before receipts reference them

## 🔍 Testing Workflow

### Local Testing:
```bash
npm install
vercel dev
# Open http://localhost:3000
```

### Build Testing:
```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

### Deployment Testing:
After Vercel deployment, test:
- All routes accessible
- OCR endpoint responds (upload test image)
- Database reads/writes work
- Calculations update properly

## 📝 Notes

- All components use Persian locale (`fa-IR`) for number formatting
- All validation messages are in Persian
- RTL layout configured in HTML
- Dark mode support via Tailwind CSS
- PWA manifest configured for app installation

## 🎯 Next Steps (Optional)

1. Add edit/update modals for all entities
2. Add create buttons functionality
3. Generate custom app icons
4. Add recipe management UI
5. Add comprehensive error boundaries
6. Add service worker for offline support
7. Add data export/import functionality

---

**Status**: ✅ Ready for Vercel deployment
**Last Updated**: November 14, 2025

Commit message:

Remove secret API key injection from client bundle
Updated deployment checklist and vite.config.ts to prevent embedding secret API keys in the frontend bundle. Secrets should be accessed only in server-side code, and public client variables must use the VITE_ prefix.

DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md, after:

# HesabYar Deployment Checklist

## ✅ Completed Fixes & Improvements

### 1. **Missing CSS File**
- ✅ Created `index.css` with Tailwind directives
- ✅ Added reset and utility layers

### 2. **API Handler Format (Vercel Compatible)**
- ✅ Updated `/api/db.ts` - Changed from `POST()` to `export default handler()`
- ✅ Updated `/api/ocr.ts` - Changed from `POST()` to `export default handler()`
- ✅ Both handlers now use Vercel's standard function signature

### 3. **Tailwind CSS Configuration**
- ✅ Created `tailwind.config.js` with proper content paths
- ✅ Created `postcss.config.js` with Tailwind and Autoprefixer
- ✅ Added Tailwind dependencies to `package.json`:
  - `tailwindcss@^3.4.1`
  - `postcss@^8.4.35`
  - `autoprefixer@^10.4.17`

### 4. **Environment Security**
- ✅ Updated `.gitignore` to exclude `.env.local` and `.env.*.local`
- ✅ Created `vercel.json` with environment variable configuration
- ✅ Configured Vercel Functions with proper runtime settings

### 5. **Purchases Component - Completed Features**
- ✅ **Receipts Tab**: Full OCR integration with Gemini API
  - Image upload with drag-and-drop
  - Automated field extraction
  - Manual correction form
  - Save to database

- ✅ **Vendors Tab**: Full CRUD operations
  - List vendors
  - Delete vendors
  - Create/Edit buttons ready (modals can be added)

- ✅ **Purchase Items Tab**: Full CRUD operations
  - List purchase items with categories and units
  - Delete functionality
  - Create/Edit buttons ready

### 6. **OCR Form Enhancement**
- ✅ Integrated React Hook Form for validation
- ✅ Added vendor dropdown selection
- ✅ Added purchase item linking
- ✅ Form state management
- ✅ Error handling with toast notifications
- ✅ Loading states

### 7. **Documentation**
- ✅ Updated `.github/copilot-instructions.md` with deployment checklist
- ✅ Added comprehensive AI agent instructions

## 🚀 Pre-Deployment Steps

### Step 1: Install Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### Step 2: Set Up Local Environment
Create `.env.local` in project root:
```
GIST_ID=your_gist_id
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key
API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key
```

Important: do not embed secret keys into the frontend bundle. Remove any
`define` mappings in `vite.config.ts` that inject secret values into the client.
Keep secrets in server-side functions (the `/api` folder) and set them using
Vercel Environment Variables or Vercel Secrets. For values that must be public
in the client, use variables prefixed with `VITE_`.

### Step 3: Test Local Build
```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
# OR for full dev with serverless functions:
vercel dev
```

### Step 4: Verify All Features
- [ ] Dashboard loads without errors
- [ ] Purchases → Receipts: OCR form works
- [ ] Purchases → Vendors: List displays
- [ ] Purchases → Purchase Items: List displays
- [ ] Sales page loads
- [ ] Inventory page calculates stock
- [ ] Reports page loads
- [ ] POS system functions
- [ ] Dark mode toggle works

## 📋 Vercel Deployment

### Step 1: Create Vercel Project
```bash
vercel
# Link existing project or create new
```

### Step 2: Configure Environment Variables
In Vercel dashboard → Settings → Environment Variables, add:
- `GIST_ID`: Your GitHub Gist ID
- `GITHUB_TOKEN`: GitHub PAT with `gist` scope
- `GEMINI_API_KEY`: Your Google Gemini API key
- `API_KEY`: Same as GEMINI_API_KEY

### Step 3: Deploy
```bash
git push origin main
# Vercel will auto-deploy
```

## 📊 File Structure Verification

```
✅ Root Files:
- ✅ package.json (with Tailwind deps)
- ✅ tsconfig.json
- ✅ vite.config.ts
- ✅ tailwind.config.js (NEW)
- ✅ postcss.config.js (NEW)
- ✅ index.css (NEW - with @tailwind directives)
- ✅ index.html
- ✅ vercel.json (UPDATED)
- ✅ .gitignore (UPDATED)

✅ API Functions:
- ✅ api/db.ts (FIXED - Vercel format)
- ✅ api/ocr.ts (FIXED - Vercel format)

✅ Components:
- ✅ components/Dashboard.tsx
- ✅ components/Purchases.tsx (ENHANCED)
- ✅ components/Sales.tsx
- ✅ components/Inventory.tsx
- ✅ components/POS.tsx
- ✅ components/Reports.tsx
- ✅ components/Layout.tsx

✅ Configuration:
- ✅ .github/copilot-instructions.md (UPDATED)
- ✅ public/manifest.json
```

## ⚠️ Known Limitations (By Design)

1. **Edit/Update Forms**: Create buttons exist but modal implementations are placeholder-ready
   - To complete: Add `<Dialog>` component from Radix UI and form handlers

2. **Icon Assets**: Manifest references `/icons/` directory
   - To complete: Generate icons via https://realfavicongenerator.net/ or add simple SVG icons

3. **Purchase Items Linking**: OCR form has select dropdowns for items
   - Ensure purchase items are created before receipts reference them

## 🔍 Testing Workflow

### Local Testing:
```bash
npm install
vercel dev
# Open http://localhost:3000
```

### Build Testing:
```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

### Deployment Testing:
After Vercel deployment, test:
- All routes accessible
- OCR endpoint responds (upload test image)
- Database reads/writes work
- Calculations update properly

## 📝 Notes

- All components use Persian locale (`fa-IR`) for number formatting
- All validation messages are in Persian
- RTL layout configured in HTML
- Dark mode support via Tailwind CSS
- PWA manifest configured for app installation

## 🎯 Next Steps (Optional)

1. Add edit/update modals for all entities
2. Add create buttons functionality
3. Generate custom app icons
4. Add recipe management UI
5. Add comprehensive error boundaries
6. Add service worker for offline support
7. Add data export/import functionality

---

**Status**: ✅ Ready for Vercel deployment
**Last Updated**: November 14, 2025
